A verdant landscape of rolling hills, lush countryside, and ambient peace
A small, quaint, two-bedroom farmhouse: a classic. Nearby, a small barn -its paint chipped, wood worn- sits nestled within the setting.  The homestead feels slightly abandoned, the facade -especially the roof- in dire need of an overhaul.
The hour hand of an old, electric clock shifts slightly, marking six a.m.  A soft alarm sounds.  Beneath the blankets, a body shifts, a weathered hand reaching out to silence the antique.
A beat... a sigh... a groan... and JOHN WICK -early sixties, salt-and-pepper hair, three-day beard, former boxer, former military, tired, beaten down, and at wit’s end- sits up, staring unblinkingly out at the day.
A beat... and he stands, donning a weathered robe and a pair of slippers.  John stuffs his hands into hi ...and shuffles down the corridor, the walls overflowing with family pictures, each badly in need of dusting.  They catalogue a long and healthy life with his wife, Norma; the pictures presenting a time line of sorts.  No children, yet sheer, unadulterated happiness.
As John makes his way through his home, we can see that it is cluttered and unorganized.  Dirty, in fact, as if it hasn’t been cleaned in months.
John opens the door, retrieves the newspaper, closes, and locks the door behind him, without giving the outside so much as a glance.
T John unceremoniously tosses the newspaper onto the table, opens a cupboard, and measures out a couple of tablespoons of Folgers Coffee into an old percolator. As it begins to bubble, John open the fridge, studies its contents for a moment or two, and then closes it, abandoning the thought of breakfast. He pours himself a cup of coffee and sits at the table.  The newspaper is ignored.  He drinks in silence for a long, dark, brooding moment, the loneliness almost unsettling. Suddenly, the phone on the wall RINGS. John lowers his cup, staring at the device, his eyes tired.  A beat... and he stands, walking slowly to answer it. JOHN This is John. As he listens to the voice on the other end, John remains still... stoic. JOHN (CONT’D) (whispers) Ok. John hangs up the phone and returns to the table, sinking slowly down into his chair. A long beat... ...and John begins to weep, his hands trembling as he lowers his face in excruciating, utter, and complete sorrow.
Having shaved and showered, wearing an old -but well-fitted- gray suit, John pushes open the garage door... ...to reveal a legend in dire need of a total overhaul: a black, 1969 FORD MUSTANG ‘BOSS 429’.
A smile plays at his lips as John walks into the garage, running a hand along the chassis, desperately in need of a wash and wax.  Behind him, the wall is lined with tools:  a mechanic’s dream enclave. John enters and closes the door behind him. John takes a moment to breath it in:  he loves this car... although he hasn’t taken very good care of it as of late.  A beat... and he slips the key into the ignition, twisting it, the motor coughing to life, the exhaust pipe belching black smoke.
THE The vehicle pulls out of the garage, stalls briefly, come back to life, puttering on down the road.
A soft rain begins to fall.
Carrying a humble bouquet of yellow daisies, John slowly makes his way down the eerily empty corridor. He pauses before a picture on the wall, glancing at his reflection upon the glass. He takes a deep breath, exhales, and enters a room.
THE HOSPITA John slowly approaches the figure lying in bed: surrounded by machinery, accompanied by the soft sounds of technology. He removes the wilted daisies from the vase, tosses them in the trash, and replaces them with fresh ones. He pulls over a chair, reaches out, and takes Norma’s hand:  she is comatose, her breathing synthetic... so many machines... so many wires, tubes, and monitors. We never see her face:  just her silhouette. He holds her hand for a long moment in heavy silence.
Behind him, the DOCTOR -of a similar age to John- enters, placing a hand on John’s shoulder. John lowers his head, and nods.  With a bit of effort, he stands, staring down at her for a long moment, never once releasing his grip, and leans over to kiss her on the forehead. JOHN ...it had to be you... (a long beat, then) ...be seein’ ya’... A beat... and John nods. The doctor turns off the machine; lights dim, the room settles into silence, and Norma’s body grows still. The Doctor leaves John to be alone with his wife. JOHN (CONT’D) (whispers) Be seein’ you.
DAY John pulls into the building... ...and sits behind the wheel for a long moment... ...his eyes unblinking... ...so very alone...
DAY John stands before the wall of pictures, statuesque as he studies them... unmoving... And then, he snaps; his hands gnarled into first, roaring with rage as he punches the pictures, ripping them from the wall, tossing them aside, eventually collapsing into a heap, out of breath, his knuckles bleeding. A long beat... and he chuckles softly, pulling himself to his feet. 
THE BASEMENT Unlike the rest of the house, this space is pristine and organized: one half designated as an impressive wood shop, the other an office space with a lazy boy recliner and tube television. John sits at his desk with a pencil in hand, a pad of paper before him, thinking. A long beat... and he sighs with a smile, placing the pencil upon the pad before sliding them both aside. John unscrews the cap off the bottle of scotch and pours himself a healthy dose.  He opens his desk drawer, reaches into the back, and finds an old pack of cigarettes, half-empty.  He taps one from, places it between his lips, and lights it, taking a deep pull. He holds it, and exhales, his body relaxing.  He finishes his drink along with the cigarette, pours himself another... ...and then opens a BOTTLE OF PILLS (The label reading NORMA WICK and OXYCONTIN), pouring them into a small mound upon the desk.  He stares at them for a long moment... ...before selecting one, studying it, sighing andA KNOCK AT THE FRONT DOOR. John freezes, not sure as to how best to proceed. A beat... and someone KNOCKS a second time. John sighs, drops the pill back onto the mound, and walks upstairs.
waits for him on the doorstep.  John opens the door. DELIVERY WOMAN John Wick? JOHN Yes? She hands him a clipboard and a pen.
Sign here, please. In a daze, John signs the clipboard and hands it back to her. (CONT’D) And the pen? JOHN Oh.  Sorry. John hands her the pen. Here you go! The hands him a card and a PLASTIC CASE by the handle which he takes without looking. DELIVERY WOMAN (CONT’D) Have a good day. John nods, and -as she takes off- heads back inside.
John closing the door behind him... ...and is startled by a small BARK. A beat... and he looks down to find that he is actually holding a small PET CARRIER.  He lifts it to look inside:  the face of a young, tri-colored (black, white, and brown), CHORGI (half-Corgi, half-Chihuahua) looks out at him, her tail wagging fiercely. She barks again, and John lowers it, confused.
Holding the envelope in his hands, John sits across from the carrier which he has set upon the table.  Inside, the Chorgi lies with paws crossed, studying him, tilting her head from side to side. A beat... and John opens the letter.  The card inside is simple; white with a single DAISY drawn upon it. John smiles, instantly knowing who it is from, running a thumb along the face of the flower.  He hesitates, but opens the card.
Dear, John.  If you have received this, then I have not survived the surgery.  (a beat, then) I am so, so sorry. Tears begin to well in John’s eyes. NORMA (V.O.) But you’ve still got a life ahead of you, and I intend for you to live it.  You may think you’ve hidden things from me, but you haven’t.  I know you.  And should this reach you in time -which I pray it has- I beg you, I implore you, to stop.  To think.  To live. (a beat, then) I love you, John.  With all my heart.  Our years were good.  The best, in fact.  But I’d rather see you later... than sooner... your best friend... Norma. John lowers the letter, wipes the tears from his cheeks, and stares at the puppy... chuckling. JOHN Well played, Norma. John reaches across, and flicks open the pet carrier. JOHN (CONT’D) (mutters) Well played. The Chorgi scrambles out of the cage and studies him; sniffing, licking, and barking. JOHN (CONT’D) So... you gotta’ name? John checks the collar to find a DAISY-SHAPED medallion which readsJOHN (CONT’D) Moose. (a beat, then) Seriously? As if in reply, Moose barks.
All right, then...  (smiles) ...Moose, it is. SUPER: THREE YEARS LATER The homestead has been completely overhauled with a new roof on the house, the barn having been painted, the yard attended to... a picturesque scene worthy of a postcard.
The alarm sounds, followed by silence when a heavy hand drops down upon the snooze button. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. Silence. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. Silence. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. A beat... and John sighs, pulls back the covers, and kicks out his legs, sitting on the edge of the bed, rubbing his eyes. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. John glances over at MOOSE who lies on the bed, her paws crossed, held tilted, and tail excitedly wagging in notes of three. JOHN (growls) I’m up, I’m up. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. BEGIN MONTAGEJohn fries up a couple of pieces of bacon and adds them to his plate of scrambled eggs and toast.  
He kneels down next to Moose’s bowl and pours some of the bacon grease over the kibble. As John takes his seat at the table to enjoy his coffee, breakfast, and newspaper, Moose devours her meal.With his car tilted up by jack stands, John lays upon a creeper cart beneath it, changing the oil as -nearby- Moose lies in the sun, fast asleep. The vehicle is pristine: fully restored and lovingly detailed.  Finishing up, John slides out from beneath the vehicle, and wipes the grease from his hands with a shop towel. JOHN (CONT’D) That oughta’ do it. (to Moose) Wanna’ try it out? THUMP. THUMP. THUMP.At an abandoned airfield, the Mustang roars down the open stretch of landing strip as Moose stands at the open window, tongue wagging in the air.  John is in his element:  calm, cool, and collected behind the wheel of his car... almost as if it is a natural extension of himself.  He deftly shifts gears, reaching speeds in excess of 120 miles per hour before hitting a long patch of gravel, shifting, spinning the wheel, and skidding -while remaining in full control- as the wheels skim over the earth.  Moose barks.  John smiles, reaching over to scratch her on the back. JOHN (CONT’D) Good girl, Moose.  Good girl.At a small park, John sits at a picnic table, eating a sandwich as he works his way through a small book of crossword puzzles.  A cup of hot coffee rests nearby as beneath the table, Moose gnaws on a tough piece of rawhide. -At a gas station, Moose barks at passing bikers as John fills the tank.  IOSEF TARASOV -mid-twenties, thin, oiled hair, sunglasses, hipster, douche-bag- parks his vintage BMW next to the Ford and as he gasses up, motions. IOSEF Nice ride. JOHN Thanks. IOSEF How much?
It ain’t for sale, kid. Iosef smirks with a shake of his head. IOSEF (in Russian, subtitled) Everything’s got a fucking price. JOHN (in Russian, subtitled) Maybe so... but I don’t. Taken aback by John’s fluency, he watches as John enters the vehicle, guns the engine, and drives off.John dozes on the couch as -between his legs- Moose snores softly.As John washes his car, Moose chases after birds before exhausted- laying upon her back in the sun, stretching as she gnaws upon her favorite stuffed animal.With a glass of scotch resting on the end table beside him, John sits in his weathered La-z-boy recliner with his reading glasses on, a book before him, and Moose curled up, asleep in his lap. A beat... and John closes his book, finishes his scotchJOHN (CONT’D) Come on, then. -and stands, with Moose leaping to the floor, leading the way back upstairs. Moose lays on the foot of the bed, tail wagging.  John smiles, scratching her belly. JOHN (CONT’D) Good night, Moose. John climbs beneath the covers, sighs, and slips off to sleep as does Moose. END MONTAGE FADE TO BLACK: FADE IN:
John awakes to hear Moose growling with tail thumping, sitting before the closed door. JOHN Do you need to go out? John groans as he rolls out of bed. JOHN (CONT’D) (mutters) So could I, it would seem... John opens the door.  Moose barks, and sprints off into the darkness. JOHN (CONT’D) What’s gotten into yWe hear a THUMP and a YELP. JOHN (CONT’D) Moose! John runs into and freezes at the sight of two MASKED MEN... ...a half-second before a THIRD MAN steps into frame and drives the butt of his shotgun against the side of John’s head.  He drops to the floor, hard. JOHN’S POV: Across the room, the silhouette of Moose’s body faces him, her breathing labored. VOICE #1 (O.C.) (in Russian, subtitled) You find the keys? One of the masked men, LIMPS by, dragging his foot slightly, an old injury or birth defect. VOICE #2 (O.C.) (in Russian, subtitled) Yeah.  He kept ‘em in a bowl like my old man. Voice #1 chuckles enjoying this as he sucks on a fresh mint.
Then shit... let the fuckin’ babushka fade away and let’s get the fuck outta’ here. One of the men kneels down next to John, pulling back his mask to reveal his mouth which grins upon him with white lacquered teeth:  it is IOSEF. IOSEF I’m glad you didn’t wanna’ sell, old man.  (chuckles) I enjoyed this. Iosef cold cocks John as weSMASHCUT TO:
DARKNESS. Silence. ...a long beat, then... ...thump... ...long beat, then... ...thump... ...a long beat, then...
A small tail rises slowly, and lands with a soft “thump”. John stirs with a groan, and opens his eyes... ...to find Moose’s nose touching his cheek. He suddenly sits up, remembering. JOHN ...Moose... Moose takes a shallow breath... ...thump...
John begins to unravel, hands trembling. JOHN (CONT’D) (softly) Moose... He touches Moose’s side, and she whimpers.  John recoils... ...and sees the trail of blood from where she was first injured... ...having pulled her broken body over to his side. John lies down beside Moose, and softly... tenderly... cradles her head in his hand, rubbing her cheek with his thumb. Moose relaxes, licks his thumb, sighs one last time... ...and grows still. John pulls himself up into a sitting position, cradles Moose’s still body... ...and begins to cry... ...rocking back and forth.
John remains sitting on the floor with Moose in his arms. A long beat... and he stands; an old, weary, and defeated soul.
TH John flicks on the light and walks down the stairs, gently placing Moose’s body upon his work bench.  He searches a shelf and finds a large box which he unfolds... ...placing Moose’s body within. A beat...
...and John reaches down to retrieve Moose’s stuffed animal from the floor, placing it down beside her. With a tender -careful- touch, John removes Moose’s collar, placing it -almost with reverence- upon a nail in the wall. John stares down at his dog for a long moment... ...before closing the box.
John digs a small grave... ...places the box, staring at it for a long moment... ...and then fills the hole.
On his hands and knees, John brushes the blood from the floor.
THE BATHROOMJohn takes a long, hot shower. He sprays a bit of shaving foam into his hand, unfolds his ceramic razor, stares at it for a long moment... ...and begins to shave. As he does so, the stress leaves his shoulders, his eyes unblinking, his movements precise. With every flick of his wrist, John seems to change slightly: his features hardening, relaxed, and yet wound tight
John gets dressed, but the outfit is slightly different than we are used to seeing:  dark, tailored pants, crisp white shirt, Italian shoes, and a black, leather jacket. The look suits him although it is a tad bit unsettling, making for an intimidating veneer.
John sips coffee -no breakfast- alone at the table, staring at the wall. Like clockwork, he lifts his mug, sips, lowers it, waits patiently, lifts, sips, lowers... ...there are no micro-emotions, but it is anyone’s guess what is taking place in his mind. John leans heavy against the wall, staring at the pictures.  We now notice that among the images of John and Norma... ...are also pictures of John and Moose.  John lowers his head with a sigh, massaging his brow, lost in thought. When he raises his face... ...the change which has washed over him... ...is complete.
A bus roars on by.
John sits alone in the middle of the bus... ...staring straight ahead... ...unblinking.
A 24/7 chop shop, this facility is populated by dozens of hardened criminals, but has become the only family anyone knows. This is a tight knit, loyal, and talented crew. A number of vehicles are being repaired, dismantled, painted, and the like:  a non-stop flurry of activity. Walking the floor, AURELIO -late sixties, hard eyes, soft smile, the father figure of this little family- banters with his crew before pausing to help lower a new engine into a car.
John’s Mustang roars down the street, tires clawing at the earth as it rounds a tight corner.
Perched behind the wheel, IOSEF smiles as, in the passenger’s seat... ...VIKTOR -mid-twenties, short, stout, a pronounced LIMP, well-dressed, gawdy jewelry, terrible glasses- and, in the back seat... ...KIRILL -early thirties, enormous, muscular, meathead- cheers him on.
The Mustang pulls into the lot, and enters pulling into an empty space. A pair of OLDER MECHANICS notice the car, share an emotionless -yet knowing- look, set down their tools, and calmly leave the building. Iosef, Viktor, and Kirill pour out of the vehicle, laughing. IOSEF (in Russian, subtitled) Shit, dude!  
I’ma gonna’ keep this muthafucker! (to a mechanic) Hey, where’s Aurelio at? Iosef sees Aurelio walking towards him, his gaze locked onto the Mustang, recognizing it. AURELIO Where’d you get that? IOSEF I gots my ways, yo!  Now, it’s hot as shit, so I wanna paint job, papers, fuckin- AURELIO (interrupting) I said, where... did you get that? IOSEF (shrugs) Some old fuck. AURELIO (a beat, then) I know this car. IOSEF What the fuck are you sayin’? Aurelio opens the driver’s side door, reaches up behind the visor, and pulls out the registration card which reads JOHN WICK. AURELIO (in Italian, subtitled) Fuck... me. Aurelio quickly replaces the card. IOSEF What? AURELIO Out.  Now. IOSEF What the fuck are you talking about? By now, everyone in the facility has stopped working, watching the drama unfold.
I’m talkin’ about you takin’ this fuckin’ car and gettin’ the fuck outta’ my shop. IOSEF Did you lose your shit, Aurelio?  We own you.  You do what we say. AURELIO The fuck you do.  Tell me... Aurelio motions towards the car. AURELIO (CONT’D) ...did you kill him? IOSEF No. (laughs) But I sure as hell fucked up his dog.  eyes grow wide... knowing. Surprising even himself, Aurelio rears back and delivers a powerful blow to the center of Iosef’s face, shattering his nose. Stunned, Iosef reels and drops to a knee, cradling his face, blood seeping between his fingers. In a knee jerk reaction, Kirill pulls his gun. The atmosphere immediately grows tense, the air still, as throughout the building-  mechanics each reach for a hidden weapon:  knives, machetes, guns, and the like.  Aurelio glares -unblinking- at Kirill as he walks towards him. AURELIO You pull a gun?  On me?  In my house?  Aurelio presses his forehead against Kirill’s outstretched gun. AURELIO (CONT’D) Flick off the safety. Kirill smirks, and flicks off the safety.
Pull back the hammer. Kirill blinks, faltering in this game of brinkmanship. AURELIO (CONT’D) Now, either shoot me... (shouts, angry) ...OR FUCK OFF! Silence... ...as Viktor lowers Kirill’s arm and we can see he is relieved that Viktor intervened. VIKTOR The old man ain’t gonna’ like this. AURELIO Maybe not.  But he’ll understand. Viktor and Kirill help a still dazed Iosef to his feet. IOSEF (mutters) ...the fuck jus’ happened...?
A STREET The bus pulls away from the curb... ...and John crosses the street, making a b-line for  automotive. 
John enters the building which is silent:  everyone is gone. John carefully makes his way through the floor, rounding a shelving array to find Aurelio -a cigarette dangling from between his lips- sitting at a folding card table, his hands folded in front of him, a bottle of Campari and two glasses resting nearby. AURELIO Hello, John. JOHN Hello, Aurelio.
Silence. Aurelio flips over the glasses and pours two drinks. JOHN (CONT’D) Have you seen my car? John takes a glass and slams back the drink, swallowed in a single gulp. AURELIO I have, but it’s not here. JOHN Where is it? AURELIO If I turn down the work, the Russians turn to Takeshi and his crew. You’ll find them down on Third and Main. JOHN Thank you. John turns to leave, but hesitates. JOHN (CONT’D) (a long beat, then) Aurelio... AURELIO Yes, John? JOHN ...they killed my dog. AURELIO I know, John.  I know... but “they”... (hesitating, then) ...”they” are extremely dangerous people. John nods and walks from the room. JOHN (mutters) Aren’t “they” always... A long beat, and Aurelio sighs, relaxing as he pours himself another drink. 
An old, quiet, and clean building lost amongst dozens of others in a dying industrial park. 
A bus pulls up the curb, pauses for a beat, and then rolls off... ...leaving behind John who walks across the street, his expression blank. His gait is steady, his shoulders relaxed, hands limp at his sides, breath steady. The two GUARDS at the door glance up as he approaches, standing as they shift into character. GUARD #1 What are youWithout slowing, John reaches into the man’s jacket, slips free the pistol from the shoulder holster therein andTHUMP! THUMP! -fires -twice- into the man’s heart, before turning- THUMP!to fire once into the other guard’s face, never slowing, kicking open the door to enter the facility, shooting anything that moves.  He is the angel of death:  each target receives two well-placed bullets to ensure incapacitation.  He never slows, never misses, and will not stop. The primarily Japanese crew is in a panic with most fleeing a number of whom are shot in the back- while those choosing to shoot back are cut down in a blink. Once emptied, John drops his pistol, kneels, sweeps up a fallen gun up, levels, fires, always moving, and -as he passes by a lift- slaps a button, slowly lowering his Mustang down to the floor behind him.
John is a force of nature as he clears out the building. Unstoppable.
A couple of mechanics escape the building, the last of which is shot in the back; dropping to his knees as a bullet slams into the back of his head.  Running with all of his might, MECHANIC #1 screams into his phone. MECHANIC #1 (in Japanese, subtitled) I DON’T KNOW WHO THE FUCK HE IS!  HE JUST SHOWED UP AND STARTED SHOOTING! Behind him, John appears in the doorway, aims... ...and decides otherwise, lowering the pistol.
John opens the door to the Mustang, tosses the pistol onto the passenger’s seat and slips behind the wheel.  A slight smile plays upon his lips as he sighs; a part of him having been returned. He turns the key, revs the engine, slams his foot down on the gas and crashes through the garage door of the building, tires squealing as the Mustang pulls a one-eighty, righting itself before leaping out onto the street, furiously gaining momentum, as a trio of heavily-modified NISSAN SKYLINES appear and take chase.
John glances into the rearview mirror, takes the pistol in his left hand, shifts, and spins the wheel
turning to face the oncoming vehicles.
T John shifts again, and crushes the gas pedal underfoot
rear wheels smoking as they struggle to grip the road.  Once they do, however, the Mustang leaps forward, bearing down on the Skylines. As the distance between them grows smaller, the passengers of two of the skylines emerge with semi-automatic weapons... ...but before either of them can fire... ...John fires off four shots, killing them each with a pair of bullets... ...before firing until empty... ...killing two drivers, and one passenger... ...leaving one driver barrelling towards him, covered in his passenger’s blood, eyes wide with horror... ...as the two other cars crash behind him. As the two vehicles barrel towards one another... ...John is stoic... ...while the remaining driver is screaming. At the last moment, the driver violently twists the steering wheel- -barely avoiding the Mustang-but loses control of the vehicle, sending it toppling end over end, cart-wheeling amidst a cloud of debris, before landing upside down
-the gas tank having ruptured, fuel gurgling out of the tank to pool around the crushed rooftop.
A NISS The driver hangs from his seat, his belt keeping him in place, stunned and bleeding from the forehead. A beat... ...followed by the sound of footsteps. As the driver shifts in his seat, a ZIPPO LIGHTER falls out of his pocket, landing on the ceiling. John kneels down beside him. JOHN (in Japanese, subtitled) Where can I find Iosef Tarasov? DRIVER (in Japanese, subtitled) I don’t know. A beat... and John reaches inside to retrieve the lighter.  He flips it open, and ignites a flame. DRIVER (CONT’D) (in Japanese, subtitled) Don’t!  Please!  Iosef!  His father!  He owns a club in Manhattan!  The Red Circle!  The Red Circle! A beat... and John closes the lighter and tosses it back into the vehicle. JOHN (in Japanese, subtitled) Thanks. A long beat... and the driver sighs. DRIVER (in Japanese, subtitled) Fuck. 
As John walks back towards his vehicle, we can hear the sound of cop cars approaching...
...as a police chopper soars past overhead. John doesn’t look up as he quickly removes the front and rear license plates -both affixed with quick release clasps- tosses them into the back seat, and
T -slips behind the wheel.  He twists, the key, revs the engine, and bolts forward as behind him
a pair of police cars round the corner-and overhead, the helicopter banks, its sights set on the Mustang. BEGIN INTERCUTS BETWEEN INTERIORS AND EXTERIORS OF THE VEHICLES John leads the cops further and further into the city... ...with traffic growing heavier with every block... ...and yet John maintains his speed-driving down narrow service alleys with reckless abandon- -and going against traffic, steering with an apt hand. Eventually, John creates enough mayhem to tie up the police on the ground- -leaving the helicopter overhead. On a long stretch of road, John reaches the vehicle’s top speed, reaches down, flips open a hidden compartment, and presses a button for- -his NITROUS OXIDE SYSTEM-which causes the engine to SCREAM, roaring down the road at an incredible speed-distancing himself from the helicopter to eventually hide in an abandoned warehouse. He parks... ...and walks across the street to the local diner...
...as overhead, the police chopper searches in vain. END INTERCUTS
The floor is empty, the building quiet.
Sitting at his desk, Aurelio -a cigarette dangling from between his lips- works on a model car, carefully gluing pieces together. The bottle of Campari rests nearby.  Music plays softly from a radio nearby. The phone rings.  Aurelio takes a deep breath, exhales, and answers it. AURELIO This is Aurelio. VIGGO (O.S.) I hear you’ve struck my son. AURELIO (deep breath, sighs) Yes, sir.  I did. VIGGO (O.S.) Might I ask why? AURELIO Because he stole John Wick’s car. Silence. VIGGO (a long beat, then) Oh. AURELIO And Viggo? VIGGO Yes?
Your son killed his dog. VIGGO (a long beat, then) Good evening, Aurelio. Clickthe line goes dead. Aurelio refills his drink... and chuckles with a shake of his head.
A TOWNHOUSESUPER:  MANHATTAN, NEW YORK A resplendent home in one of the city’s wealthiest neighborhoods. A trio of military-grade SEDANS -heavily armored, tinted/bulletproof glass, intimidating- pull up to the curb. The first and third empty as the keen eyes of ten gunmen scour the street, buildings, and rooftops. A beat... and one of them slaps a hand on the middle Sedan’s roof. Preceded -and proceeded- by a gunman, IOSEF emerges; belligerently naive and yet... scared.
Lighting himself a cigarette, VIGGO TARASOV -60s, face scarred by a hard life, one eye dead, hair perfectly coifed, expensive suit, a slight limp, relying on a cane- fills a tumbler with ice.  He selects a fresh bottle of JEWEL OF RUSSIAN CLASSIC VODKA and twisting off the cap, hesitating.  Deciding otherwise, Viggo dumps out the ice, pours himself a double shot, and slams it back... ...before refilling the glass with ice and pouring himself a healthy dose. Iosef entersVIGGO (in Russian, subtitled) Close the door. and closes the door behind him, tilting his chin towards his father with a smirk. IOSEF Poor me a double, aye? VIGGO (sighs) Aye. In a surprising blur of motion, Viggo spins-and drives a fist into Iosef’s stomach with enough force to lift him -momentarily- from the ground. With the wind knocked out of him, Iosef drops to his knees, opens his mouth to say something, but instead vomits, gagging as he gasps for breath. Viggo casually returns to the bar, grabs a towel, and tosses it down onto his son. VIGGO (CONT’D) (in Russian, subtitled) Clean that up. Again, Iosef opens his mouth to say something, but decides otherwise.  He grabs the towel and cleans up his mess. Viggo takes his drink and walks to the window, his cigarette smoldering from the corner of his lips. VIGGO (CONT’D) You should know by now that I live by one simple rule... (in Russian, subtitled) Should a whelp snap at your fingers, you crush it’s fucking skull. Iosef pulls himself to his feet, and stumbles to the bar, pouring himself a drink. IOSEF (hushed, pained) What’d I do? VIGGO (in Russian, subtitled) You fucked up. IOSEF I don’t know what y
Viggo backhands him, the sound more painful than the strike. VIGGO Yes.  You do.  IOSEF (hesitating, then) So I stole a fucking car!  So fucking what?  Viggo smiles -amused- finishes his drink... ...and drives a fist into Iosef’s stomach again, dropping him once more to his knees, tears rolling down his cheeks as he vomits up his own drink. VIGGO Use that tone with me again... Viggo kneels down next to Iosef, grabs his hair, pulls back his head, produces a switchblade, flicking open the blade and placing it to the flesh directly beneath his son’s right eye. VIGGO (CONT’D) (in Russian, subtitled) ...and I’ll serve your eye to you in your martini. Trembling, Iosef chokes back tears. VIGGO (CONT’D) (in Russian, subtitled) Am I understood? IOSEF (gulps, then) Yes... father. A beat... and Viggo removes the blade from Iosef’s cheek and stands, folding the switchblade closed as he stands to pour himself another drink. VIGGO It wasn’t the “what you did”, Iosef, which draws my ire, but “who you did it to”. IOSEF What?  (a beat, then) The old man?
VIGGO Careful, son... that old man happens to be three years younger than I. Iosef lowers his eyes, his breath catching in the back of his throat. VIGGO (CONT’D) His name is John Wick... (smirks at the memory) ...and when he was fifteen, he lied his way into the marines and headed off to Vietnam.  He specialized in force-oriented reconnaissance, meaning he often crossed over into enemy territory to both collect information and -should the opportunity present itself- fuck with the enemy in whatever way that he saw fit.
CONTINUOUS
TH Wearing an undershirt and pants, sweating profusely, John wields a SLEDGEHAMMER which he swings down onto the floor time and time again, cracking the concrete foundation. VIGGO(V.O.) John earned four hundred and seventeen confirmed kills over the course of his five tours.  The majority of those were done by hand, by blade, and by small caliber... which is unheard of.
Viggo takes a long pull off of his drink as the information sinks into Iosef, the blood draining from his face. VIGGO It got to him, though.  Hell... How could it not?  Even though he won every military distinction on record, including the Medal of Honor- 
TH John has revealed an OLD TRAP DOOR IN THE FLOORVIGGO (V.O.) -John was eventually discharged with high honors, of course- and found himself in the city... -which he swings open, revealing a ladder. VIGGO (V.O.) ...lookin’ for work. John grabs a flashlight and heads down.
Viggo lowers his empty glass as Iosef refills his glass with a trembling hand. IOSEF (hesitating, then) What kind of work? VIGGO (growls) What kind do you think? IOSEF (a beat, then) Oh.
THE SU John shines the light down a thin corridor stacked high with a variety of boxes, military containers, and briefcases. VIGGO (V.O.) John was the goddamned boogeyman; give him a name, request a method, and he’d get it done.  Come hell or high water, by God... he’d get it done.  
Viggo leans against the fireplace, suddenly tired.
VIGGO Then one day, he fell in love and left the game. The years scrolled past, age set in, and he -like myself- had to watch the love of his life die. Suddenly alone, with no family to speak of, John deserved to live -and die- in peace. (growls) Instead...
THE SU John selects a black case, unclasps it, and swings it openVIGGO (V.O.) (growls) You went and killed his fucking dog. -to reveal a number of PISTOLS, SILENCERS, and AMMUNITION.
Iosef drops down into a chair, the comprehension of his actions clear. VIGGO Until I say otherwise, you are under house arrest.  Am I understood? IOSEF (mutters) Yes, sir. Viggo turns to leave, chuckling softly to himself. VIGGO John Wick.  Good God...  He pauses at the door, glancing back at his son with a crooked smile. VIGGO (CONT’D) (in Russian, subtitled) Sweet dreams.
NIGHT
John sits at table, having cleaned and assembled one pistol, now oiling a second.  His hands are steady, his skill impressive. We slowly move past him, over the counter, to the door whose handle softly turns.  We pull back as it opens-FOUR MEN in black masks, each armed with a silenced pistol enter, fanning out-and yet John is nowhere to be seen... ...and two silenced pistols are missing from the table.
THE A COP CAR pulls up in front of the barn.
Behind the wheel, CARLO -late twenties, a bit dim, but nice enough- kills the engine. CARLO Let’s see here... Carlo checks the dashboard computer. CARLO (CONT’D) ...a black, 1969 Ford Mustang registered to one John Wick.  Age... (deflates) ...61. Chuckling EDWARDO -58, nearing retirement, large, heavy, smarter than he looks- takes a sip of coffee from his paper cup before unbuckling his belt. EDWARDO Yeah, I’m thinkin’ he’s the one. ROBERTO Should we even bother? edwardo opens his door... EDWARDO Protocol’s protocol.  Stay put.  I’ll make this quick.
...and exits.
The four masked men enter , each wound tight, their silenced weapons at the ready.  The lead among them enters the hallway-and is shot twice; once in the chest, and once in the head. As he goes down, John moves past, killing two others, leaving the remaining gunmen
cowering in  leaning against the wall.
John aims-light casting the gunman’s shadow-and fires twice into the wall- 
hitting the gunman in the back and the head, dropping him to the floor.
A KNOCK AT THE DOOR. John lowers the pistol, walks to the door, and peers through the keyhole to see Edwardo standing on his porch.  A beat... and John slips the pistol in the back of his pants, unlocks, and opens the door. An awkward pause, thenEDWARDO Evenin’, John. JOHN Evenin’, Ed. EDWARDO You workin’ again?
John follows his gaze... ...to see that a dead gunman is in Edwardo’s direct line of sight. JOHN No...just sorting out a few things with the Russian mob. EDWARDO Ah.  Well, then... sort that out however you see fit.  I’ll cover your ass on my side of the fence as best I can. JOHN Thanks, Ed... but you still owe me. EDWARDO That, I do. (a beat, then) Good night, John. JOHN Good night, Ed. Edwardo turns, takes a few steps, hesitates, and turns back. EDWARDO Earlier today, there was an incident involving a ‘69 MustangJOHN Yeah, that was me. EDWARDO Oh.  Well, then... I’d recommend you find yourself a new ride for the time being.  The heat on that make ain’t gonna’ die down for quite some time. Edwardo leaves.  John closes and locks the door behind him.
A COP CARNIGHT Edwardo slips into his seat, closing the door behind him. ROBERTO Well?
EDWARDO (sighs) He ain’t our fuckin’ guy. (motions) Who’s next on the list?
John pulls a large roll of plastic sheeting down from the rafters, balancing it on his shoulder with a grunt. He grabs a roll of duct tape as he exits.
John drops the plastic sheeting down upon the floor, and rolls it out. Standing over one of the gunmen, he reaches down, retrieves the man’s pistol, and slips it into the holster at the man’s side.  John then kneels beside him and pushes the body onto the plastic, rolling him up tight.  Using his ceramic straight razor, the plastic is cut off from the roll.  Wrapping the feet, arms, and head tight with duct tape, John repeats this process with each body...
John casually opens one of a half-dozen, identical, silver cases stacked among the others.  Inside are hundreds of AMERICAN LIBERTY GOLD BULLION COINS. John counts out SIX of them, and closes the case.
ohn mops up the blood... ...and spackles the bullet holes in his wall. We hear a KNOCK at the back door. John wipes his hands against his pants, and
opens the door. Removing his hat, CHARLIE -70s, small, creepy, thin, frail, eyes gentle, a tattooed smirk upon his lips- extends his hand with a smile. CHARLIE Good to see you, John. John shakes his hand. JOHN You, too, Charlie. Charlie enters, followed by two GOONS -forties, tall, muscular, emotionless- who offer John little more than a nod before they begin carrying the bodies out of the house. CHARLIE I was sorry to hear about Norma. JOHN Thanks. CHARLIE She was always kind to me. (a beat, then amused) So, what have you been doing to pass the time?
JOHN I got me a hobby or two. CHARLIE I can see that.  (hesitating) Tell me, John... are we back in the game, now?  JOHN Sorry, Charlie, but no.  I’m on my own nowadays. CHARLIE (sighs) That is a pity.  I find the new breed of your ilk unstable, illwrought, and tiresome.  The overused adage holds true:  they don’t make ‘em like they used to, John. JOHN (smiles) No, they don’t. GOON #1 We’re a go, boss. CHARLIE Excellent. John hands Charlie the six gold coins which he graciously accepts with a slight tilt of the head. JOHN Thanks. CHARLIE My pleasure, John... and might I be expecting more such visitations? JOHN I make no promises on that. CHARLIE (chuckles) Well said. Charlie extends his hand.  John shakes it. CHARLIE (CONT’D) Be seein’ you, John.
JOHN See ya’, Charlie. John closes the door.
Cutting vegetables with a large knife, Viggo slides them onto the face of an open omelette simmering in the pan.  As he folds the egg over onto itself, his phone rings.  He answers it. VIGGO (in Russian, subtitled) Yes? Viggo rubs his brow with a frown, his head down. VIGGO (CONT’D) (in Russian, subtitled) Of course he did.  (a beat, then) Put the word out.  Two million to the man who kills John Wick.  Three million to the man who delivers him intact. Viggo hangs up, thinks for a moment, slips the omelette onto a plate, hesitates, and then dials a number.
A beautiful, rustic, Mediterranean setting.
A MANSIONES Situated on a hundred acres populated by thousands of almond trees, the building -complimented by the grounds- is breathtaking. 
Accompanied by CESCA -a middle-aged, Majorcan Shepherd Dog, similar in look to a Black Labrador- as he walks -cane in hand- through his property, MARCUS -seventy, thin, balding, round spectacles, clean shaven, always well-dressed, expensive watch, and although he may look frail, he is anything but- whistles softly to himself. His cellphone vibrates.  He answers it. MARCUS Yes? (a beat, then) Why, hello, Viggo.  What’s it been?  Seven years?  Seven years... (a beat, then) Life?  Marcus looks around with a smile, reaching down to scratch Cesca behind the ears. MARCUS (CONT’D) Life is good.
Viggo nods, eating a mouthful of the omelette. VIGGO Good, good. (hesitating, then) I’ve a favor to ask.  One that pays quite well.
Marcus chuckles with a shake of his head. MARCUS As I keep telling those -like you- who keep calling, Viggo... I’m retired. Marcus listens to Viggo talk... ...pausing in mid-step... ...his brow furrowed, eyes still.
ome again? (a beat, then) John Wick? (a long beat, then) Consider it done. Marcus ends the call, slips the phone back into his pocket, takes a deep breath, exhales, turns, and starts walking back to his house. MARCUS (CONT’D) (in Catalan, subtitled) Sorry, Cesca... but I’ve an old friend to attend to.
silver-nosed train roars past, its wheels melting snow from the tracks beneath it.
John sits alone, the train half-empty, staring out at the countryside passing him by.
The city is a roiling mass of activity.
Small, trendy, and posh:  an upscale, boutique hotel.
Carrying a bulky briefcase in each hand -with the duffel bag slung across his shoulders- John approaches the front desk where the MANAGER smiles up at him. MANAGER Hello, sir.  How may I help you today? JOHN I called ahead.  Reservation for John Wick. The Manager checks his computer. MANAGER Ah, yes.  I have you for two nights. JOHN Depending on business, it may be more. MANAGER That’s not a problem, sir.  We’re only at sixty percent capacity.  
Just let me know should you choose to extend your stay. JOHN (looking around) Y’know, I haven’t been here in years.  When did the old girl get a facelift? MANAGER About twelve years ago. JOHN Same owner? MANAGER (nods) Same owner. John slides across a GOLD COIN... JOHN Is she still singin’? ...which the Manager -without so much as a blink- slides into his pocket. MANAGER She is.  Daily, in fact.  Round about midnight. JOHN That’s good to hear. The Manager hands him a key. MANAGER Floor seven, room nine. (motions) Would you like help with your bags? JOHN No, thanks. MANAGER Will there be anything else then, sir? JOHN (glances at his watch) Can you send me up a hamburger rare, mustard, onions, pickle- and fries?